For this figure that comes right after
this YouTube video I'm going to give it
a class and the class is going to be,
Featured-screenshots.
Okay, and so that's gonna to give me
a class that I can use to style this
figure in a little bit more detail.
Here in my css, we can say
figure.featured-screenshots, display:
grid,
grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr,
grid-template-rows: auto
uto and a gap of 2rem.
So that should set us up with three
screenshots equally by each other and
in two rows.
That should give us
the images in the top row and
then the figure caption
coming after that in theory.
Let's check in on how that's doing.
All right, so if we take a look at our
webpage so far, we refresh the page.
What you're gonna see is we
have a bunch of images that
are all stacked on top of each other.
And we have some captions that are in
the wrong places and so forth.
So here is how we're going
to have to fix this.
What's going on is that if we scroll down
into the project section of the webpage,
which comes after the featured section,
we have here figure display grid and
we have figure image and
we have figure a and all the rest of this.
This is overriding the styles that
we have earlier in our document.
So what I'm going to need to do is I'm
gonna need to move the styles that I just
put in place.
And those styles are .project figure,
.project figcaption and
figure.featured-screenshots, all
four of those.
I'm going to remove from the featured
section of the webpage here,
the featured layer.
I'm going to go down to projects.
I'm gonna scroll past all of the figure
and figure capture styling there and
come on down here to the bottom where I
will paste in my additional styles here.
So now I have .project figure as
display block .figure caption, and
the figure featured
screenshots are all here.
When I save this and
now go back to my webpage.
Okay, so
now we have our videos looking good.
We have all of the images.
They're all stacked on top
of each other right here.
Don't panic about that,
we're gonna fix that in a moment, but
the other images are looking okay.
All right, so
we only see one image here because we
have conflicting style that's happening.
And our conflicting style is happening for
section featured image.
So if I find my section
featured image style.
So here in section featured image,
I've actually told all of the images to
display in the same place, which is
in the first row in the first column.
And so those images are doing
exactly what I told them to do.
They are all displaying in the first
row in the first column on the webpage.
So we need to override them here
inside of our later style so
that they don't do that
later in our document.
So I'm gonna scroll down to my
figure.featured-screenshots image.
I'm gonna add the style here.
So section-featured
.featured-screenshots img.
So we'll make a more powerful selector and
put it later in the document
to override what came before.
We'll say grid-column: revert,
grid-row: revert.
In other words, forget what you
know about those images and
where they are being located.
Get rid of them.
That's what the revert
keyword happens to mean.
So if we save that and we go back into
our Firefox here and hit refresh,
now our images are all displayed,
all one right next to each other.
Yay, that is what we're looking for.
Our caption is still bunched
up here over on the side.
So let us get that working as well.
And that is going to be right
after .section-featured
.featured-screenshots image.
We'll say .featured-screenshots
figcaption,
and we'll say our grid column is 1/4
because we want that
figure caption to stretch
all the way across through three columns.
Not be limited to just the first column.
So we're gonna put that in and
grid-row: 2/3, okay?
Take a look at the web page again.
There it is.
So now our figured caption stretches
across the bottom of those three images.
Now what I'd like to do is I'd like
to make these into two columns,
because again, this is too long
of a line for easy reading.
Wouldn't it be nice if we actually
had two columns of text and
we can do that with the columns property.
It's kinda cool.
You might not have heard
of this one before.
So if we say our
.featured-screenshots figcaption p.
Paragraph inside of the figure caption
that's inside of our featured screenshots.
We'll say columns: 2.
So what this does is it takes a look at
the lines of text, divides it in two and
puts it into two separate columns,
which is really great.
And while we're here,
let's put in a little extra margin.
So margin-bottom: 5rem to give us
a little bit of breathing room.
And when we take a look
at our webpage again,
now we have two lovely columns of text.
It's a little bit easier to read.
And this is done with newspaper style.
So we are actually in the middle of
a sentence here, styling buttons,
audio players, hamburger menus and
lists back up to the top.
More like reading a newspaper
here with the columns property.
Okay, this next image it
should be stretching across
the screen with some space around it.
So it's kind of pretty well
doing that right now, but
it needs a little bit more
space down here on the bottom.
So let's take a look at that.
In my html, How did I do that,
cool It is both annoying and
very cool at the same time.
Okay, so here in my html image for
the diamond grid,
we have a class of feature image
that's associated with it.
So we can use that for styling.
I'm going to add to this for
our .featured-image and
I am going to say display: block and
I'm gonna give it a margin of 5rem 0.
So that will give us a little bit
of breathing room for that image.
Okay, remember that margins in
a vertical direction collapse, so
we have some of that collapse
that is happening here.
And then now for this last image
down here, this is a figure again.
And I wanna set it up such that
the image is on the right and
the figure caption is on the left.
So let's set that up as well.
Here in my html,
I am going to go to my last figure here.
This is the one.
And what I'm going to do
is give this a class.
Class = "figure-portfolio".
Okay, and then I can write a style for
this one too.
,figure-portfolio.
We'll say padding: 5rem 0.
We'll say display: grid.
We'll say grid-template-columns
will be 1fr 1fr.
So we'll have to equal columns.
Grid-template-rows will be auto,
make however many rows you need.
We'll tell the items to
align-items in the center.
So this will put the text aligning in the
middle of the image instead of at the top
of the image,
which is where it would go by default.
So align images puts it in the center and
then a gap of 2rem.
Okay, and if we take a look at that inside
of our browser window, .project figure.
.figure-portfolio is being
overwritten by my .project
figure that comes earlier
in the set of styles, okay.